Replace PATH_STATUS with PATH_AVAILABLE and PATH_STANDBY (#242)
quicwg/multipath: draft-ietf-quic-multipath.md

- PATH_ABANDON frame for the receiver side to abandon the path
(see {{path-abandon-frame}})

> - PATH_STANDBY and PATH_AVAILABLE frames to express a preference 

Author: ```suggestion
- PATH_STANDBY and PATH_AVAILABLE frames to express a preference
```

- PATH_ABANDON frame for the receiver side to abandon the path
(see {{path-abandon-frame}})
- PATH_STANDBY and PATH_AVAILABLE frames to express a preference

> in path usage (see {{path-standby-frame} and {path-available-frame}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in path usage (see {{path-standby-frame}} and {{path-available-frame}}
```

> All the new frames are sent in 1-RTT packets {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.

Author: ```suggestion
All new frames are sent in 1-RTT packets {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.
```

## Path State Management

An endpoint uses PATH_STANDBY and PATH_AVAILABLE frames to inform that the peer should
send packets in the preference expressed by these frames.
Note that the endpoint might not follow the peer’s advertisements,
but these frames are still a clear signal of suggestion
for the preference of path usage by the peer.

PATH_AVAILABLE indiactes that a path as "available", i.e., allow
the peer to use its own logic to split traffic among available paths.
PATH_STANDBY marks a path as "standby", i.e., suggest that no traffic
should be sent on that path if another path is available.

Endpoints use Destination Connection ID Sequence Number field
in these frames to identify which path state is going to be
changed. Notice that both frames can be sent via a different path

> and therefore might arrive in different orders. [TODO: solve this issue!]

Author: ```suggestion
and therefore might arrive in different orders.
The PATH_AVAILABLE and PATH_STANDBY frames share a common sequence number space to detect and ignore outdated information.
```

## Path State Management

An endpoint uses PATH_STANDBY and PATH_AVAILABLE frames to inform that the peer should
send packets in the preference expressed by these frames.
Note that the endpoint might not follow the peer’s advertisements,
but these frames are still a clear signal of suggestion

> for the preference of path usage by the peer.

Author: ```suggestion
for the preference of path usage by the peer.
Each peer indicates it preference of path usage independently to the other peer.
That means path usage preferences of each peer for the same path can be different.
A sender then needs to make a sending decision taking the peer's as well as its own
preferences into account which may lead to usage of paths that have been indicated
as "standby" by the peer or non-usage of some available paths.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the preference of path usage by the peer.
Each peer indicates its preference of path usage independently of the other peer.
It means that peers may have different usage preferences for the same path.
Depending on the sender's decisions, this may lead to usage of paths that have been
indicated as "standby" by the peer or non-usage of some locally available paths.
```

> PATH_AVAILABLE indiactes that a path as "available", i.e., allow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PATH_AVAILABLE indicates that a path is "available", i.e., it suggests to
```

the peer to use its own logic to split traffic among available paths.

> PATH_STANDBY marks a path as "standby", i.e., suggest that no traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PATH_STANDBY marks a path as "standby", i.e., it suggests that no traffic
```

> should be sent on that path if another path is available.

Author: ```suggestion
should be sent on that path if another path is available.
If no frame indicating a path usage preference was received for a certain path,
the preference of the peer is unknown and the sender needs to decide based on it
own local logic if the path should be used.
```

Endpoints use Destination Connection ID Sequence Number field
in these frames to identify which path state is going to be
changed. Notice that both frames can be sent via a different path
and therefore might arrive in different orders.
The PATH_AVAILABLE and PATH_STANDBY frames share a common sequence number space to detect and ignore outdated information.

If all available path are marked as "standby", no guidance is provided about

> which path should be used preferably.

Author: ```suggestion
which path should be used preferably.
If no frame indicating a path usage preference was received for a certain path,
the preferences of the peer are unknown and the sender needs to decide based on it
own local logic if the path should be used.
```

PATH_ABANDON frames are ack-eliciting. If a packet containing
a PATH_ABANDON frame is considered lost, the peer SHOULD repeat it.

## PATH_STANDBY frame {#path-standby-frame}

> PATH_STANDBY Frames are used by endpoints to inform the peer 
> about its preference to not use the path associated to 

Author: ```suggestion
PATH_STANDBY Frames are used by endpoints to inform the peer
about its preference to not use the path associated to
```

Path Status sequence number:
: A variable-length integer specifying
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_STANDBY frame. The sequence
  number MUST be monotonically increasing generated by the sender of
  the PATH_STANDBY frame in the same connection. The receiver of
  the PATH_STANDBY frame needs to use and compare the sequence numbers
  separately for each Destination Connection ID Sequence
  Number.

Frames may be received out of order. A peer MUST ignore an incoming
PATH_STANDBY frame if it previously received another PATH_STANDBY frame
for the same Destination Connection ID Sequence Number with a
Path Status sequence number equal to or higher than the Path Status
sequence number of the incoming frame.

PATH_STANDBY frames are ack-eliciting. If a packet containing a
PATH_STANDBY frame is considered lost, the peer SHOULD resend the frame
only if it contains the last status sent for that path -- as indicated
by the sequence number.

## PATH_AVAILABLE frame {#path-available-frame}

> PATH_AVAILABLE Frames are used by endpoints to inform the peer 
> that the path associated to 

Author: ```suggestion
PATH_AVAILABLE Frames are used by endpoints to inform the peer
that the path associated to
```

Path Status sequence number:
: A variable-length integer specifying
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_STANDBY frame. The sequence
  number MUST be monotonically increasing generated by the sender of
  the PATH_STANDBY frame in the same connection. The receiver of
  the PATH_STANDBY frame needs to use and compare the sequence numbers
  separately for each Destination Connection ID Sequence
  Number.

Frames may be received out of order. A peer MUST ignore an incoming

> PATH_STANDBY frame if it previously received another PATH_STANDBY frame

Author: ```suggestion
PATH_STANDBY frame if it previously received another PATH_STANDBY frame
or PATH_AVAILABLE 
```

Path Status sequence number:
: A variable-length integer specifying

>   the sequence number assigned for this PATH_STANDBY frame. The sequence

Author: ```suggestion
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_STANDBY frame. The sequence number space is shared with the PATH_AVAILABLE frame and
the sequence
```

Path Status sequence number equal to or higher than the Path Status
sequence number of the incoming frame.

PATH_STANDBY frames are ack-eliciting. If a packet containing a
PATH_STANDBY frame is considered lost, the peer SHOULD resend the frame
only if it contains the last status sent for that path -- as indicated
by the sequence number.

## PATH_AVAILABLE frame {#path-available-frame}

PATH_AVAILABLE Frames are used by endpoints to inform the peer
that the path associated to
the Destination Connection IDs in the frame is available for sending.
PATH_AVAILABLE frames are formatted as shown in {{fig-path-available-format}}.

~~~
  PATH_AVAILABLE Frame {
    Type (i) = TBD-03 (experiments use 0xbaba07),
    Destination Connection ID Sequence Number (i),
    Path Status sequence number (i),
  }
~~~
{: #fig-path-available-format title="PATH_AVAILABLE Frame Format"}

PATH_AVAILABLE Frames contain the following fields:

Destination Connection ID Sequence Number:
: The sequence number of the Destination Connection ID used by the
  receiver of this frame to send packets over the path the status update
  corresponds to.

Path Status sequence number:
: A variable-length integer specifying

>   the sequence number assigned for this PATH_AVAILABLE frame. The sequence

Author: ```suggestion
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_AVAILABLE frame. The sequence number space is shared with the PATH_STANDBY frame and
the sequence
```

PATH_AVAILABLE frames are formatted as shown in {{fig-path-available-format}}.

~~~
  PATH_AVAILABLE Frame {
    Type (i) = TBD-03 (experiments use 0xbaba07),
    Destination Connection ID Sequence Number (i),
    Path Status sequence number (i),
  }
~~~
{: #fig-path-available-format title="PATH_AVAILABLE Frame Format"}

PATH_AVAILABLE Frames contain the following fields:

Destination Connection ID Sequence Number:
: The sequence number of the Destination Connection ID used by the
  receiver of this frame to send packets over the path the status update
  corresponds to.

Path Status sequence number:
: A variable-length integer specifying
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_AVAILABLE frame. The sequence number space is shared with the PATH_STANDBY frame and
the sequence
  number MUST be monotonically increasing generated by the sender of
  the PATH_AVAILABLE frame in the same connection. The receiver of
  the PATH_AVAILABLE frame needs to use and compare the sequence numbers
  separately for each Destination Connection ID Sequence
  Number.

Frames may be received out of order. A peer MUST ignore an incoming

> PATH_AVAILABLE frame if it previously received another PATH_AVAILABLE frame

Author: ```suggestion
PATH_AVAILABLE frame if it previously received another PATH_AVAILABLE frame
or PATH_STANDBY
```

Path Status sequence number:
: A variable-length integer specifying
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_STANDBY frame. The sequence number space is shared with the PATH_AVAILABLE frame and
the sequence
  number MUST be monotonically increasing generated by the sender of
  the PATH_STANDBY frame in the same connection. The receiver of
  the PATH_STANDBY frame needs to use and compare the sequence numbers
  separately for each Destination Connection ID Sequence
  Number.

Frames may be received out of order. A peer MUST ignore an incoming
PATH_STANDBY frame if it previously received another PATH_STANDBY frame

> or PATH_AVAILABLE 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or PATH_AVAILABLE frame
```

> or PATH_AVAILABLE 

Author: ```suggestion
or PATH_AVAILABLE
```

for the same Destination Connection ID Sequence Number with a
Path Status sequence number equal to or higher than the Path Status
sequence number of the incoming frame.

PATH_STANDBY frames are ack-eliciting. If a packet containing a
PATH_STANDBY frame is considered lost, the peer SHOULD resend the frame
only if it contains the last status sent for that path -- as indicated
by the sequence number.

## PATH_AVAILABLE frame {#path-available-frame}

> PATH_AVAILABLE Frames are used by endpoints to inform the peer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PATH_AVAILABLE frames are used by endpoints to inform the peer
```

that the path associated to
the Destination Connection IDs in the frame is available for sending.
PATH_AVAILABLE frames are formatted as shown in {{fig-path-available-format}}.

~~~
  PATH_AVAILABLE Frame {

>     Type (i) = TBD-03 (experiments use 0xbaba07),

Reviewer: We should update the base value, and 07 is already taken (because 06 was the PATH_STATUS frame from draft 05)
```suggestion
    Type (i) = TBD-03 (experiments use 0x15228c08),
```

    Destination Connection ID Sequence Number (i),
    Path Status sequence number (i),
  }
~~~
{: #fig-path-available-format title="PATH_AVAILABLE Frame Format"}

> PATH_AVAILABLE Frames contain the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PATH_AVAILABLE frames contain the following fields:
```

Destination Connection ID Sequence Number:
: The sequence number of the Destination Connection ID used by the
  receiver of this frame to send packets over the path the status update
  corresponds to.

Path Status sequence number:
: A variable-length integer specifying
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_AVAILABLE frame. The sequence number space is shared with the PATH_STANDBY frame and
the sequence
  number MUST be monotonically increasing generated by the sender of
  the PATH_AVAILABLE frame in the same connection. The receiver of
  the PATH_AVAILABLE frame needs to use and compare the sequence numbers
  separately for each Destination Connection ID Sequence
  Number.

Frames may be received out of order. A peer MUST ignore an incoming
PATH_AVAILABLE frame if it previously received another PATH_AVAILABLE frame

> or PATH_STANDBY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or PATH_STANDBY frame
```
